You can see the state of
the project now at typescript-1.
I think there's through 5,
let's make sure that that's the case.
Yeah, typescript 1 through typescript 5.
All right, let's keep going.
Let's do ThemeContext.
This one's not too bad to do.
Okay, kind of a side note,
a pause here for me to kind of,
I've done a lot of
migrations on my career.
People pay me a lot of money
to do migrations in my career,
I feel like I've wasted
a lot of my career.
That's it, that's the whole statement.
I'm just kidding.
The way I go about doing migrations and
specifically typescripts
migrations is that I try and
start at like the leaf nodes, right?
The things that are the furthest out.
If I tried to start my
migration with app.js,
it would be a nightmare because
everything is dependent, right?
And so you would kinda have to go
through this entire project of trying to
basically boil the ocean all at once and
that's bad.
You don't wanna do it that way.
It's much better if you start at something
like ThemeContext where it does not
dependent, right?
Everything imports ThemeContext,
ThemeContext is not importing other things
if that makes any sense to you, right?
What's nice about this is that I
can finish ThemeContext right away.
And now, everywhere that it's being
imported will have those types but
I don't have to go type that
file to make it useful.
This just makes it easier and it makes
it so you can have quick wins, and
I'm all about that serotonin.
All right, so here in ThemeContext,
we have to just tell
it what type of context we're
going to be creating here.
So first of all,
rename this to be ThemeContext.ts.
You could make it tsx,
there's no jsx here so
that's totally up to you,
I don't care either way.
Okay?
And then here we're gonna tell it that
the kind of context that we're creating is
gonna be Hook shaped.
So it's gonna be a string and
then it's going to be
a function that's gonna take in
a theme which is a string and
it is going to return
nothing which is void, okay?
There's again many ways to skin this,
I actually just typed in literally
here what a Hook looks like.
I think you can find a way to make this
actually know that it is specifically
supposed to be a use State Hook but
honestly this is fine, this works for me.
So it's now a react context that
specifically gonna take a array of two
things, if you try to give it three
things, it won't be happy about it.
The first one is gonna be a string and
the second one is going to be a function
that takes in a theme and returns nothing.
That's it, that's the whole thing.
Congratulations, you did ThemeContext.
Okay?
Let's move on to the next one.
So frequently what I'll find myself doing
is I'll make a file of useful types and
sometimes useful types will break down
further into many files of useful types.
And a really good example of when
you wanna do that is with API
responses, right?
Your API response doesn't come with types.
There's no way the typescript
would have a concept of like,
I'm gonna call this API and this API
is going to give me back these things.
So you have to tell it, here's what
I expect to get back from the API.
So I want you to make a new file here and
you can just call it something
like API responses types.
I call it responsestypes.ts, okay?
And then here I'm gonna
export a type Animal, and
this is gonna be what you would
call it an enumerated type.
An animal can be either
a dog or a cat or a bird or
a reptile or a rabbit.
So now if I try and say,
I don't know somewhere else I say,
this is an animal and
I say animals now equal to goat.
It's gonna be, I don't know what that is,
I'm not gonna let you do that.
But now I can assign to say,
all right, this thing is an animal and
it's a bird and types can be cool,
I know what that is, right?
It limits the types of
strings that can be in there,
aka an enumerated type,
which is kind of fun, okay?
So this is a type and then we're gonna
make these down here interfaces.
So the pet interface is gonna be what kind
of pets we get back from the pet API.
So it's gonna be an ID which is a number,
it's gonna be a name which is a string,
it's gonna be an animal which is as
you might have guessed an animal
the one that we just made.
Description string,
breed string, images,
it's gonna be a string array.
A city string, state string.
Okay?
So now we have a pet type that we can
throw around anytime we get back a pet
from the API and
we know it always looks like this.
Okay?
And then we have one more thing,
we have a pet response.
So we're gonna do an export Interface,
PetAPIResponse.
And that is a number of
results which is a number.
A start index which as a number.
An end index which you may
have guessed is a number.
hasNext which is a Boolean and
a pets which is a pet type array.
It's an array of these things.
Cool, now we have this file,
we can now import this anywhere
that we're calling the API, right?
So we could call the API in two different
places in our application and now we get
to share this type so we don't have to
retype it every single time that we do it.
We made animal type instead of an
interface, this confuses people a lot and
it's kind of preferential.
Though I will say that as far as I know,
the types community strongly
prefers interfaces over types.
But I'm just gonna say
to some of the answers,
that really doesn't typically matter.
Usually they're close enough
that it doesn't really
matter which one you're choosing.
I'm not gonna speak too much more on that
cuz I really don't have a strong opinion
on it but generally interfaces
are tend to be more flexible and
fit more places that
you're gonna want them to.
Whereas types are much
more strict they're like,
this is you know all this can ever be.
Whereas interface has
some composability and
some other fun tools you can do with
them and I'll leave it at that.
If you want more in depth and
explanation on that probably check
out Mike's course because Mike will
go into that more than I will.
In other words, you can't please everyone.
Again, more of life advice with Brian,
can't please everybody.
>> How would you go about typing
if it was a nested object?
>> If it's a nested object.
I believe and again,
this is off top my head.
It looks really familiar, right?
It's just really just objects syntax.
Generally these nested objects tend to be
another type that you can pull out, right?
Which is precisely what I did
here with pet API response.
I could have basically just copied and
pasted this whole pet thing here but
now I get to use pet and pass pet around.
And I can also say that this pet
API response is a pet array.
So I try not to nest a ton.
Semantically nested objects
tend to be a thing, right?
So let's say like
a location thing here and
inside of that location was this,
I probably would make a location type,
right?
So I would say or an interface export
Interface Location, I'd put these here and
then I would say location is a location.
It's not a hard and fast rule cuz in
general don't believe in hard and
fast rules when it comes to coding.
But now if I ever pulled
out this location and
I start passing it around to different
files, I don't have to retype it again.
I can just say okay, this is a location
that came from this type, right?
So personal opinion there but
it's a good one, it's a good opinion.
Yeah, Mark.
>> They're saying that
instead of fizz buzz or
foo bar people should use LOL and WTF.
>> Indeed, yeah, hard requirement.
There's another favorite
is obviously barbecue,
OMG very important, yeah?
That's just solid computer science
I think [LAUGH] yeah, definitely.
Yeah, I don't like foo and bar,
at least LOL and OMG make me laugh.